LizardFS is a GPLv3-licensed implementation of GoogleFS, and a
live fork of earlier project MooseFS, led by Gemius SA.

One can think of LizardFS as a scalable NFS on steroid, that can be deployed
on JBOA (Just a Bunch of Anything) - any mixture of workstations/servers (and
soon also mobile devices), running Linux, BSD, MacOSX, and Windows, will do.

Moreover it scales very well, as data is replicated point-to-point (just like
in torrent software) and up to 9 (nine) copies of any chunk of data can be
specified.  (Number of copies is set at file and directory level).  The system
balances chunks of files among the machines, ensuring no machine suddenly runs
out of storage space.  No need for similar machines, no need for similar-sized
disks, just pick up what left after last power station failure and build a
bullet-proof system for massive storage out of it!

Although it is a fairly new project (forked circa 2012), it already has quite
impressive number of huge installations worldwide, including (but not limited
to): Harvard University, Mirada.com studios, and more.

LizardFS system consists of:
- managing server - single computer managing the whole filesystem,
- meta-loggers - one or more backup machines for master server,
- any number of data servers.

Master server must be POSIX compliant (Linux, BSD, OSX, Windows+Cygwin etc.)
and should be as good as budget permits.  Lots of RAM?  Yes, ECC.  SSDrives?
Sure, RAID+BBU controlled.  Network card? 10Gbps interfaces, bonded together.
Despite of beeing benchmark-crusher, it should not perform any unneeded
activity whatsoever, as it could become a SPoF.

Therefore at least one meta-logger should be deployed.  In order to be a quick
drop-in replacement, meta-loggers should be fairly decent machines as well.

The actual storage for one's precious data however, can be the last sort of
what merely resembles contemporary computers, as chunkserver process hardly
saturates one procesor core, even under full load.  Moreover chunkservers can
act as any type of what-you-need, utilizing (having mounted) filesystem they
are actually backing, being distributed webservers or even office space
workstations.

Project home page: http://lizardfs.org/
